#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured
#Install Guide

= Introduction =

This is the install guide.  *A work in progress*

= Details =

== Install from ZIP ==

  # Download and install [http://java.sun.com/ Java 5+]
  # Download and install [http://www.mysql.org/ MySQL v5+]
  # Configure the MySQL Database using the [http://truetrade.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/com.ats.model/src/create_tables.sql create_tables.sql] script
  # Download and unzip latest [http://code.google.com/p/truetrade/downloads/detail?name=TrueTradeClient.zip&can=2&q= TrueTrade Client Builder] file from the Downloads
  # Unpack the zip file and run {{{TrueTrade/TrueTrade.exe}}}.  It will probably generate lots of errors because your database hasn't been configured yet.
  # Run Windows > Preferences > Databases and set the following:
    * JDBC URL: {{{jdbc:mysql://localhost/ats?enable-named-pipe&socketFactory=com.mysql.jdbc.NamedPipeSocketFactory }}}
    * JDBC Provider: {{{ com.mysql.jdbc.Driver }}}
  # Click Apply or OK.  You will probably get an error message saying that there was a problem, but it shouldn't affect the saving of your preferences (defect 26).  Exit and then restart.  The client should come up without any errors
  

== Install from Source ==

  # Download and install Java 5+ (http://java.sun.com/)
  # Download and install eclipse v3.2 (http://www.eclipse.org)
  # Install Subclipse plugin (http://subclipse.tigris.org/) and Draw2d and GEF from eclipse.org
  # Download and install MySQL v5 (http://www.mysql.org)
  # Connect to the Google Subversion repository and load the projects:
    * com.ats.client
    * com.ats.client.runtime
    * com.ats.model
    * com.ats.resources
  Developers that want the latest and bleeding-edgiest code can extract from {{{HEAD}}}, users that want something a little more stable should extract code from the latest tag/branch (currently "{{{v0.5 Alpha release}}}").
  # extract the files labelled "Missing lib" from the "Downloads" tab on Google Code and add them to the lib directories in your {{{com.ats.resources\lib}}} folder.  (Files of this size cannot be added to source code control.)  The currently missing libs are:
    * js.jar
    * itext-1.4.3.jar
    * jfreechart-1.0.2.jar
  # Extract and copy the "Missing lib" file {{{ibatis-2.3.0.677.jar}}} into your {{{com.ats.resources\lib}}} directory
  # Create the MySQL database and tables using com.ats.model/create_tables.sql
  # Run the com.ats.client as an Eclipse Application.  When you get errors, edit the runtime configuration to add VM argument "-Xmx256m" and the plugins which are listed in the {{{<plugins>}}} section of {{{com.ats.client\client_builder.product}}} (Found in SubVersion [http://truetrade.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/com.ats.client/client_builder.product here]).
  # Run again